Welcome back everyone.
In this lecture we're going to be discussing primary and foreign keys fundamental concepts necessary
to understand in order to create tables and sequel let's start with a primary key a Primary Key is a
column or a group of columns used to identify a row uniquely in a table for example in our DVD rental
database.
We saw customers how do unique nominal customer I.D. column as a primary key unique means has to be
distinct for every row and Nono means there must be an entry there for the primary key primary keys
are also important since they allow us to easily discern what columns should be used for joining tables
together so let's see an example of a primary key.
Here's a subset of a screenshot where we selected everything from a customer.
Notice that we have this customer IP column and PGI admin when you grab table information.
It will actually tell you if a column is a primary key for that table by specifying P.K. or primary
key.
And so notice this is a unique integer and it's also non NULL which essentially means that every row
must have an entry here for customer I.D..
So this is a customer at the integer that uniquely identifies each customer.
You wouldn't want to use something like the first name as a primary key because people can share the
same first name.
However they cannot share this unique integer the.
So again it's integer based and unique later on we're going to be learning about the serial data type
which is actually a way of automatically creating these unique integers for us as we enter more data
into a table.
Now let's discuss a foreign key a foreign key is a field or group of fields and a table that uniquely
identifies a row in another table a foreign key is defined in a table that references to the primary
key of the other table the table that contains the foreign key is called referencing table or child
table the table to which the foreign key references is called reference table or a parent table a table
can have multiple foreign keys depending on its relationships with other tables so for example recall
in the DVD rental database payment table each payment row had its unique payment I.D. which was a primary
key for the payment table.
And it also identified the customer that made the payment through the customer i.e. the customer I.D.
within the payment table is a foreign key since it references the customer tables primary key.
So for example let's check out and grab a subset here from the payment table.
So technically grabbing all the Collins but the screenshot only shows a subset notice that for the payment
table we have this payment I.D. and PGI I mean lets you know that it's a primary key because it has
P.K. there.
So we have this payment I.D. which is a unique identifier for every single payment row.
However you'll also notice that we have other I.D. these other ideas are foreign key references.
Now P.J. Batman won't directly tell you through a simple query call whether or not a column is a foreign
key.
We'll discuss how to figure that out in just a little bit but here we can see we have these customer
I.D. staff I.D. and rental I.D. notice that within the payment table it's OK if they're repeated because
the same customer may have made multiple payments.
So these foreign keys the reason they're foreign keys is there a reference to a primary key in another
table.
So a customer I.D. is a foreign QF in payment because it's a primary key in the customer table.
Same with staff I.D. it's foreign often payment because it's a primary within the staff table.
Same with rental and again I mean won't allow you to alert you directly in a simple query call whether
or not this is a foreign key.
They'll only do that for the primary key.
Now you may have already realized that a primary key and a foreign key typically make good column choices
for joining together two or more tables when creating tables and defining columns we can use constraints
to define columns as being a primary key or attaching a foreign key relationship to another table.
And we'll discuss this in more detail when we actually go over the create commands.
However I mentioned that in a simple query call PGE Ataman only directly alert you to something being
a primary key and not a foreign key.
I want to quickly explore the table properties that are available to us and PGA Iman in order to get
information on primary and foreign keys through the properties window.
Since we can't really see them directly through just a simple query call let's jump the PGA airman and
show you how to understand the foreign keys that are present within a table.
Okay.
Here I am in PGA admin.
Recall that we had this example query SELECT everything from payment and I can see here that every single
payment has a unique payment I.D. as a primary key But also notice that we have customer I.D. staff
I.D. and rental.
And just from this query we can't be 100 percent sure that it's a direct foreign key.
Now given how much we work with this DVD rental database we do understand and we're pretty familiar
if the tables enough to understand that this customer I.D. theft and rental like these are foreign keys
but how do we actually understand that officially.
How can we see the dependencies.
Well if you take a look at DVD rental you can go ahead and expand schemas Here give that a little time
to load and as it's expanding what we're going to see is the public relationships and then we have tables.
So expand on tables and then we have scroll down let's go ahead and look at the table we're looking
at right now which is the payment table and then we can expand on this and we can view the columns here.
So if payment I.D. customer I.D. RFID etc. Now if something is a foreign key that is technically a constraint
on that particular column.
Now we're gonna be discussing constraints in more detail in the next lecture.
So let's expand constraints.
And notice here we have certain keys.
So there's actually a little key symbol the golden key symbol is the primary keys is the payment PRIMARY
KEY SO payment underscore P key for primary key.
And notice it shows you that customer I.D. rental I.T. and stuff I.T. are F keys or foreign keys shown
off another little kind of dual key symbol.
So the constraints here will actually alert you to the fact that they are foreign keys within this table.
Now there are a few more ways to actually review this information officially if you want.
You can actually select one of these foreign keys and notice that it's highlighted and once you select
that foreign key over here on your tabs.
Right now we're just on the actual query Ed tab go over to dependencies click on that and it will show
you the dependencies for that particular column and alert you to what tables it's referencing.
So that is here we have this customer I.D. which is a foreign key within this payment table and it's
referencing notice here the customer that customer I.D. essentially telling you that under public schema
we have the customer table and the customer I.D. is that primary key referencing.
So you can view that under dependencies one other way to do this is if you right click on this so right
click on that constraint and select properties it'll actually show you the properties and then you can
expand on this to view columns and it will tell you that it's referencing customer I.D. So it's referencing
that from the public Doc customer table.
So it's just yet another way to actually view what actual primary key it's referencing as a foreign
key if in the payment table.
So lots of different ways you can review this information if you're dealing with a database instead
of tables that you're not 100 percent familiar with.
So again let's imagine we just ran our query.
We see these I.D. columns and we're not 100 percent sure whether or not they're foreign keys.
We simply underneath this little browser icon we go ahead view that table view the constraints right
away.
This will tell you if they're foreign keys if you want more details as far as what this actual foreign
key is referencing you right click go to properties go to columns they'll tell you the schema dot table
that it's referencing and then the column it's referencing within that table.
OK so that's they can figure out more information based off what's available to you in PGA admin for
foreign keys primary keys.
It's a little easier because any query should let you know if it's stated as a primary key constraint.
Thanks and I'll see you at the next lecture.